---
title: Healthcare still sucks
tags: healthcare, bureacracy
decription: healthcare nightmare
---

My dad lives in Florida and isn't too well off. So much so that since
the early part of this year I've been paying for his health insurance,
its the first time he has ever had regular healthcare since leaving
the Soviet Union in 1993.

# Getting healthcare

Because it was for an individual and I was handling everything, I had
to use healthcare.gov. This is like two years since the site had been
up, I think, so I presumed all the bugs had been hashed out or at
least the easy ones (my dad's application was basically the simplest
one out there). Hint, the site still had bugs and didn't actually work
on Chrome. (What amazing things a startup could have done with $300
million)

We discovered he had prostate cancer and he underwent surgery on the
31st of August. I was relieved and glad that I was taking care of my
dad, the bill was on autopay and he was doing well. A few days later I
got a call from my dad saying his insurance was canceled, very strange
to me since I already paid that month's bill. 

# No one takes responsibility

So I called Florida Blue, being in San Francisco that three hour time
difference can be annoying. Florida Blue told me that the Marketplace,
aka healthcare.gov, terminated the plan. That was immediately strange
to me as the Marketplace never asked me whether I wanted the plan
canceled. I called the Marketplace and they told me they never
canceled the plan and subsequently told me to call Florida Blue; you
can see how this is getting aggravating. The Marketplace then told me
they would assign a case worker to this and of course it would take up
to 30 days, 30 days to do what is essentially some SQL queries and
other record lookups. Of course I'm having to waste many hours on the
phone and explain this all over to my dad. I think I've said my name
and requested authorization to speak on dad's behalf about sixteen
times already.

# Wait a Month

So now my dad, who underwent surgery on the 31st of August, has no
insurance for the entire month of September. All his followup doctor
visits, medications are canceled. He has to wait until October 1st
until the insurance is reinstated all because of the incompetence of a
third party that forcibly injected itself into the patient-doctor
realm.

# Something to be said

My dad grew up in the Soviet Union so everything that he knew was
ultimately state owned, both physically and intellectually. But he
said the following to me,

> Why is the government involved between me and the doctors, or the
> insurance company we choose?

And it stuck to me because I also believe that, every experience we've
had with the government is bad or a waste of time and its why I'm
suspicious of white leftists espousing the wisdom of "if we only spent
more money on <their favorite moral issue>..." Thought-experiments and
ideas need to hit reality at some point, its similar to why I like
Silicon Valley and open source coding; the idea should be good but the
implementation is more important. In any case the point I want to make
is simple: **Healthcare.gov still sucks.**
